The Joe Rogan experience. It's actually my point. So I was sent a video.
I'm going to skip tracks to a different video.
Cause I want to make a point that we live in a, we live in a mediated world now,
right? Immediated epistemology is what I would call it, the media itself,
social media.
So all of us participating are able to spin narratives around like
a 32nd video.
So the other day this guy sends me a video on Twitter and I watch it and it's
some black guy with a microphone and you know,
in a radio studio and he's like going, and he's like, you know,
these white people, ain't gonna take a Omo. Ain't gonna take him.
And he's like yelling. He was like, oh, they're going to rise up. You know?
And it's, it's obvious what you're watching. You're like, man,
this guy's like these riots are out of control.
And so I wanted to share it,
but it was sent to me on Twitter and I couldn't figure out how so I looked it up
on YouTube. And so I had like a 42nd clip sent to me and I'm like, yeah,
well that this riots and I want to show it to somebody.
And so I go and I find it on YouTube and I watch it.
And it's the same thing in 40 seconds. And it ends,
but the video that I watched is several minutes.
And then the next thing the guy says.
Is this president is divisive. This president is the problem is so divisive.
He goes all the division and it's like, holy. He's actually talking about Trump.
And then I kept watching it. And he's like, president Obama has got to go.
At the end. And so it depends on which part of that clip.
You see the story changes completely. I watched the 40 seconds and I was like,
holy, this is the riot. And then, oh my God, it's about Trump. And then boom.
Now it's this dude railing about Obama several years ago.
And the video was sent to me because it was going crazy with the
implication that it was about the riots, but hadn't, it was about Obama.
That's crazy. This is like the deal, right? We, you, what we're seeing,
isn't always the whole story, right?
And there we live in this clip culture now, which is a real problem.
Right? And we pieced together the story,
we believe based on our prior assumptions about it,
the Covington case exactly.
Where the kid was just standing there and the native American guy came up to him
with the drum and he was smiling,
the native Americans face and they got a photo of it.
And it really looks like this. Kid's a prick.
And then he's taunting these native Americans who were just peacefully banging
on their drums as.
Exactly. Right. So we live in this situation now where the,
I don't want to say the media, like it's an entity because actually in a sense,
we are all participating. These clips, you know,
that people are loading up on Twitter, that whole context isn't there.
And you said, you know, does it just Jack everything up to a higher frequency?
And absolutely it does because everybody can take that clip and then just upload
their story of what they want to have to be true into the clip.
And it becomes like, it's like an, I mean, we're already talking about religion.
It's like a miracle, like, you know, back in 2000, 3000 years ago, you know,
some something weird happened. And then, you know, people,
one person tells another and another print and other, and then it's like, eh,
and I swear, you know,
an angel came down from the sky and touched him and he was healed and he could
walk again, you know? So it's like a miracle story,
but mediated through partially informative video. It's, it's almost like,
you know, everybody's scared to deep,
fake is common where they can basically put your face on whatever porn star or
saying some horrible thing that you never said or whatever.
It's, it's, it is the precursor to that because you.
Can cut that clip just right. And then all of a sudden, it means one thing,
if you cut it just another way,
it means something exactly the opposite or totally different in different groups
that want to push a narrative,
which is like everybody latches onto it and runs with it.
And this of course causes crazy polarization. Right?
So that same clip I saw, I don't know that it would be a good example,
but you know, you could take it as the riots and you know, that get one,
that black guy sick of the riots. And so the right wings all over it, like,
look at this guy, you know, and then boom, this president.
So divisive now it's the left story and you cut it right there.
And the next thing you know, what's president Obama, you know,
and all of a sudden it switched sides. It switches sides again, and right.
And it's also history.
And then even the thing I watched that was longer was four and a half minutes.
And then the whole thing is like an hour. So what really,
what was really the whole goal, the whole point. And so,
um, we're getting away from being able to understand, because you know,
our attention spans are so short, you live in Twitter.
It's like you have the attention span of like a goldfish man.
You can't pay attention to anything we're marinading in dopamine all the time
brain doesn't work. Right?
So you don't have time to like parse anything together.
You see this thing you're off, you're a retweet, you know, snarky comment.
Don't you think that also just the format of Twitter itself is
just, I think it's detrimental to people's mental health,
big time communicating through these small little sentences
and little paragraphs of 280 words. So.
Let's write characters. Yeah. Yeah. So it was like 30 ones. And so this,
I actually called Twitter, a deconstruction machine,
which is straight out of this again,
the same critical postmodern philosophy stuff.
And I kind of keep circling around deconstruction is the idea that, um,
it's the same thing as the media mediated ideas that we're going to take a thing
apart, make it look absurd, or we're going to show,
show it in a particular light and then, you know,
pull it apart into [inaudible] you don't really trust its validity anymore.
And that's it specifically its purpose is to make it that you don't trust the
validity of the thing anymore. And so anything you put on Twitter,
once you get an account of a certain size, at least anything,
like I have an account that's big enough now. So I experienced this regularly.
It's a 100% chance that some is going to say something that just messes with
your head, right. And or somebody is going to take it out of context,
or they're going to, they're going to tell you what they thought you mean.
And now that's the thing you mean,
or they're going to screenshot it and it's going to go around and they're going
to like, it's like, I mean,
you're famous enough where it's obviously happens to you all the time.
I'm sure it's like,
they take something that you say on a podcast or you put on a Twitter or your
shows or whatever, and they clip it up. And then there's like,
you know who Joe Rogan is.
But then there's like this new Joe that they created that's out in the universe.
Right? So they take you apart. They deconstruct you.
They're the real Joe Rogan and your real intentions and your real meaning.
And then they put it out into the world.
And then there's this new Joe Rogan that does horrible thing or that new Joe
Rogan, maybe that's.
Well, I always tell people too,
like if you have an issue with some of the things that I say, guess what?
I have an issue with some of the things I say, and if you were here with me,
when I say things and you disagreed, I'd listen to your point.
I'm not an idealist or an ideal log. When it comes to, uh,
ideas, when it comes to concepts, I'm not married to anything that I say.
Right. We need to be able to talk about it. Right.
So you say a thing and then I'm like, okay, but I think part.
Of the problem is they can't talk about it. You have to tweet about it. So,
but because they're not in the room and they don't have your attention, right.
So then they get angry and that's part of the problem with podcast,
as well as like, right, right now, you and I are having a conversation,
but millions of people are listening to this conversation and there's a lot of
them that wish they could chime in if they don't get to.
So what they do is they get angry and they put some stuff on Twitter.
I understand the motivation. I understand the thought process behind it.
I really do. But I personally can't engage because it's just too unhealthy.